
A target-date mutual fund is a hybrid fund category that automatically resets the asset mix of
stocks, bonds and cash equivalents in its portfolio according to a selected time frame that is
appropriate for a particular investor. A target-date fund is similar to a life-cycle fund except
that a target-date fund is structured to address some date in the future, such as retirement. Its
returns are not guaranteed, but depend on how the market performs.


For example, a younger worker hoping to retire in 2050 would choose a target-date 2050 fund, while
an older worker hoping to retire in 2025 would choose a target-date 2025 fund. Because it has a
longer time horizon, the 2050 fund would likely be weighted heavily toward stocks, with a relatively
small percentage of bonds and cash equivalents, while the 2025 fund would hold relatively more bonds
and cash equivalents and fewer stocks so it would be less volatile and more likely to contain the
assets the investor needs to begin making withdrawals in 2025.


Target-date funds are popular with 401(k) plan investors. Instead of having to choose a number of
investments to create a portfolio that will help them reach their retirement goals, investors simply
choose a single fund designed to help them reach that goal. The fund’s managers then rebalance the
fund’s assets each year and keep its investments on track to meet the fund holders’ goal of using
that investment to begin paying for their retirement in a particular year.


While proponents cite the convenience to investors of putting their investing activities on
autopilot in one fund, critics are wary of these funds' one-size-fits-all approach. They don’t take
into account that one investor wanting to retire in 2050 might have a different risk tolerance than
another investor wanting to retire in the same year. Also, a fund with the same target date can have
varying levels of risk and investment expenses depending on which brokerage is offering it.


Unfortunately for investors, for most target-date strategy "glide paths" there is an equivalent
constant mix strategy that provides almost the same likelihoods, or probabilities, of various levels
of ending wealth as the specified glide path. The conclusion from this fact (source) is that
target-date strategies do not have any greater ability to control risk than very simple strategies.


This is very relevant to investors because while target-date funds are appealing because of their
“set it and forget it” allure, there is often a significant price to be paid for the “service.” If
the same outcome can be accomplished for half the price or less, investors ought to forgo the
expense of a “service” that has no real benefit and keep their dollars in their own accounts to
grow.

